[sharp exhale]
[Lady] How do I catch you up?
So much has happened since my last visit.
I wish I had time to tell you everything.
You deserve that much.
I feel like I'm leaving you in the dust.
Again.
But I've got a war to end.
Hail Mary. full of grace.
the Lord is with thee.
Blessed art thou among women
and blessed is
the fruit of thy womb. Jesus.
Holy Mary. mother of God.
pray for us sinners
now and at the hour of our death.
[officer] Mask up!
We hit the red zone in T-minus 30.
The nanosecond that door opens.
you run your asses to the rendezvous point
and you run like hell
because you're in it.
I promise you.
no matter how bad it looks out there.
you turn around. I'm gonna look worse.
…at the hour of our death.
Is that clear?
[soldiers] Yes. sir!
[officer] God save us all.
[alarm blares]
…of God. pray for our sins.
[officer] Go. go. go. go!
["Getting Away with Murder" playing]
♪ Somewhere beyond happiness and sadness ♪
♪ I need to calculate
What creates my own madness ♪
♪ And I'm addicted to your punishment ♪
♪ And you're the master
And I am waiting for disaster ♪
♪ I feel irrational. so confrontational ♪
♪ To tell the truth I am
Getting away with murder ♪
♪ It is impossible
To never tell the truth ♪
♪ But the reality is ♪
[officer] Go. go. go. go!
♪ I'm getting away with murder ♪
[song trails off]
[man] The mission is critical.
The survival of the human race
depends on your success.
Also. don't forget. your colleagues
on the ground are buying you time.
Good luck.
Arkham.
Your aerial insertion will be
tactical and precise.
straight into the heart…
["Getting Away with Murder" resumes]
♪ I feel irrational. so confrontational ♪
♪ To tell the truth I am ♪
♪ Getting away with murder ♪
♪ It is impossible ♪
♪ To never tell the truth ♪
♪ But the reality is ♪
♪ I'm getting away with murder ♪
♪ Murder. murder ♪
[song halts]
[man] Your objective.
infiltrate Castle Mundus and secure
an epoch-defining ancient weapon.
one that will tip the scales
in this war against hell.
We were told
to rendezvous here for orders.
The mission was to take out
that thing in front of the gates
so our guys could punch through.
If I can get to that ridge.
I can send a rocket straight into
that fire-breathing mouth thing's gut.
[heavy footfalls thudding]
No matter what comes.
we get him to that ridge.
[man] We've outfitted you with a tracker.
meticulously calibrated to detect
the weapon's unique
demon energy signature.
Follow it closely.
[heavy thud in distance]
[man] Your stealth generator
is your lifeline.
but its charge is sadly finite.
Stay hidden at all costs.
[screaming]
Eat this!
["Getting Away with Murder" resumes]
♪ I'll drink my drink
And I don't even want to ♪
[soldier] Go. you assholes!
♪ I think my thoughts
When I don't even need to ♪
♪ I never look back
'Cause I don't even want to ♪
♪ And I don't need to
Because I'm getting away with murder ♪
[song halts]
[soldiers panting]
[door grinding open in distance]
- [heavy blows landing]
- [demon grunting]
[jailer snarling]
[man] Perfect timing will be essential.
No matter what you see.
do not deviate from your objective.
["Getting Away with Murder" resumes]
♪ I'm somewhere
Beyond happiness and sadness ♪
♪ I need to calculate
What creates my own madness ♪
♪ And I'm addicted to your punishment ♪
♪ And you're the master
And I am waiting for disaster ♪
♪ I feel irrational. so confrontational ♪
♪ To tell the truth I am ♪
♪ Getting away with murder ♪
♪ It is impossible ♪
♪ To never tell the truth ♪
♪ But the reality is ♪
♪ I'm getting away with murder ♪
[song halts]
Leave it.
Looks like you're the one
who gets to vaporize
that big. ugly son of a bitch.
No. I can't.
You can. cause you have to.
Just make sure
you wait till he charges a blast.
and hit him in the mouth
when it opens. Yeah?
["Getting Away with Murder" resumes]
♪ Somewhere beyond happiness and sadness ♪
Hail Mary. full of grace.
♪ And I'm addicted to your punishment ♪
♪ And you're the master
And I am craving this disaster ♪
♪ I feel irrational ♪
♪ So confrontational ♪
♪ To tell the truth I am ♪
♪ Getting away with murder ♪
♪ It is impossible ♪
♪ To never tell the truth ♪
♪ But the reality is ♪
♪ I'm getting away with murder ♪
[song halts]
[somber. restrained music playing]
[speaking in Makaian]
[Lady] Call me Lady.
[furtive whispering]
Free the others. then make your way
behind the battle lines.
Hey. Lady!
[speaks in Makaian]
[Lady] You're welcome.
- [bells tinkling]
- Not going so well. is it?
The progress of the battle
is not your concern.
[jester demon]
I was just in the throne room.
Lord Mundus couldn't be cheered
by even my wittiest japes.
He bemoans that none of his generals are
bold enough to ask for his help.
[growling softly]
[manic tittering]
Lord Mundus.
the sapiens have progressed
further than we anticipated.
[Mundus] With all the armies of Makai
at your command.
you cannot defeat a few insects
flinging little balls of iron?
We will prevail. Majesty. of course.
But if you were to display
your own unrivaled might. it may--
[Mundus] Now. having disgraced my banner.
you think to command me in my own hall.
[forceful metal music playing]
[Mundus] Impudent fool.
But not wrong.
[man] Once our double agent
has drawn Mundus away
from his throne room.
you'll have a brief window
to extract the weapon.
[jingling]
[dark. brooding goth rock playing]
[screaming]
[man] The weapon lies lodged within
the very seat of Mundus's power.
his throne.
It may appear as an ordinary object.
but do not be deceived.
[giggling]
The weapon is an ancient artifact.
as old as time itself.
And Mundus fears its power.
That is why he keeps it so close.
[Lady] There you are.
[dark. brooding goth rock swelling]
[Lady] The whole offensive…
It was just to get him off the throne.
All for a fucking cup.
[rowdy intro music playing]
[music trails off]
You're a long way
from the battle lines. sapien.
No armies to protect you.
We are the power here.
[knight] There is only one power
in this realm.
Are you declaring treason to your king?
All sapiens and their spoils
are his by right.
The Nelo Angelo.
The way we heard it.
your Lord Mundus is the reason
these sapiens were able
to breach our world.
These lands no longer recognize
a ruler so inept.
[knight] They will.
because he sent me to oversee them.
Only you?
[knight] A warrior.
Behold. the stoic orphan of Sparda.
The quieter. brooding twin.
Hello. Vergil.
I would be very careful
about who hears you use that name.
Oh. touchy. aren't we?
It's okay.
I know your peers despise this human form.
I come with a message for Vergil.
from the Uroboros.
The snake who eats its own tail.
He wants you to know
that he's not merely alive.
but he's thriving. celebrating.
because he stole something precious
from your daddy Mundus.
Stole what?
The Arcana Chalice.
Impossible.
Oh. poor little Vergil.
kept in the dark by Daddy Mundus.
Betrayal's sting is sharp. isn't it?
The Uroboros.
however. only tells the truth.
He was the one who killed your mother.
Who do you speak of? Tell me.
Secrets are like a fire.
They can illuminate or consume.
If you're brave enough
to step into the inferno.
cross into Earth realm.
He's dying to meet you.
[entrancing vocal music playing]
[Vergil] The Uroboros.
Impossible.
The U.S. military continues
to make progress
in their ongoing operation in Hell.
Officials tell us
they successfully completed
a tactical backwards
advance maneuver last night.
with fewer casualties than expected.
The spineless bureaucrats at the UN
just voted to officially condemn
the President's heroic
anti-demon operation.
Let me be crystal clear.
If you're against our troops.
you're on the side of the devil.
President Hopper will go down as…
…the greatest leader in U.S. history.
[anchors in unison] He was the only one
who had guts to tell the truth.
and he's fulfilling America's duty
to stop evil at its source.
Every real.
God-fearing American loves him.
We'll be hot this week. folks.
but not as hot as we could be.
thanks to our brave troops.
And coming up on Wednesday.
an event that only happens
once every 159 years.
a hybrid solar eclipse.
[distorted] Hybrid solar eclipse.
[ominous voiceover] Dark forces
are conspiring to cripple America.
So America has entrusted her faith
in an organization that was built
to exterminate darkness.
[heroic music playing]
DARKCOM. an interdimensional justice firm
that employs Earth's top scientists.
engineers. and combat specialists
to defend you
from the demon terrorists from Hell.
DARKCOM. bringing evil to justice.
Here at DARKCOM.
our crusade is to keep you safe
from the diabolical demons
who want to cage you
and strip you of your freedom.
This is why our brave operatives
are working around the clock.
delivering liberty to our enemies.
Both in this realm…
and beyond!
DARKCOM. your guard in dark times.
Part of the Uroboros family of companies.
You don't think it's a bit heavy-handed?
The most effective propaganda
is the most obvious.
The point isn't to convince people.
It's to give them a feeling of unease.
Dread. the ideal customer.
Arius!
I quit.
[Arius chuckles]
You know. most employees who I assign
tasks with a near certainty of death
quit before they do them.
I appreciate the originality.
[scoffs] All the same. I'm done.
The devil is not done with us.
The devil isn't the one sending
hundreds of our own soldiers
to get slaughtered as a goddamn diversion.
Dante told me. you don't care about
the people who die on your orders.
He was right.
If your unholy mongrel was right.
why is he currently frozen
in a tube in our basement?
Because I chose you.
A shame you're leaving.
Just when I was
about to give you a promotion.
You think I'm gonna fall for that?
You clearly have your own ideas
on how to fight this war.
Use them.
I want to appoint you as commander
of DARKCOM's entire military division.
You'll have the freedom to pursue
mission objectives however you see fit.
What does it matter
if I'm commanding DARKCOM's troops
when the U.S. Army's
out there doing suicide runs?
That was an unfortunate necessity.
We had to attack with enough force
to draw out Mundus himself.
I do care. Mary.
More than you can know.
But the power this artifact holds.
acquiring it was worth
any amount of sacrifice.
Power to do what?
[Arius] To kill Mundus.
It is the final piece of the Arcana.
The only weapon
that can truly destroy him.
It will let us unleash an almighty fire.
A tactical strike
to eliminate the so-called "king."
And bring Makai freedom.
I'll take the position.
Only so somebody else doesn't fuck it up.
Congratulations. Commander Arkham.
It's not Arkham anymore.
Just Lady.
Passion may have caused
her belief to waver.
but she has more than earned the truth.
It's time we told her
about her father.
Soon. once our final victory is complete.
Hey. what are you doing?
[dark. operatic music playing]
[Arius] The Arcana cannot be destroyed
by any mortal means.
Now we know for certain.
This is one of the four.
The Medaglia. the Spada. the Bastone.
And now. the Chalice to complete it.
Just in time for the moment
when its power can be unlocked.
There's still one more thing we need.
Not to worry.
The bait has already been laid
to bring Vergil over to this realm.
Our surveillance team will know
the instant he sets foot on Earth.
And a force will be waiting
to collect and deliver him.
Vergil will be met
with DARKCOM's latest innovation.
the Super Demon Killer 950 cartridge.
Designed to eject a specialized
nerve agent based on Dante's DNA.
The cocktail will reach
Vergil's brainstem in seconds.
causing permanent total paralysis.
Sparda's sons will finally be reunited.
And as insurance.
we have our undercover agent
in Mundus' court.
to make certain Vergil takes the bait.
[taut. emotional music playing]
Because when you achieve something...
[young Dante] I know where Mom
hid the boombox. Let's go get it.
- Can't wait to show our friends.
- [demon] Your father's crimes.
- [young Vergil] I don't need saving.
- [demon] There were many.
[young Vergil screaming]
[music trails off]
[jester demon giggling]
Let me sing you a song
of the blackest of knights
and the foes of our realm that he slayed.
A tragic number. really.
I'll call it "The Ballad of Nelo Angelo."
Catchy. isn't it?
Say what you mean. Jester.
I have no patience for riddles.
Fine. fine.
I just think it curious.
Our noble King Mundus
dotes on you like a son.
And yet he keeps banishing you
to the farthest corners of his empire.
Well. perhaps it's for the best.
considering...
Considering what?
Out there.
no one knows who your real father is.
The greatest traitor
in this realm's long history.
Your history is a lie.
Sparda was no traitor.
Such fun little things. aren't they?
Lies. Twisting. coiling.
feeding on themselves.
Like a snake devouring its own tail.
The Uroboros.
That was no slip of the tongue.
- What are you playing at?
- Oops. silly me. It just tumbled out.
Though it seems to have struck a chord.
Enough!
The Uroboros is the mark of...
Argosax the Chaos.
To speak his name
is treason against Mundus.
and a death sentence for you.
I'm but a humble fool.
Don't tell the king. I beg you.
Lord Mundus already slew
his royal guard in a fit of rage.
Nobody knows why.
Perhaps you have some idea?
[red-haired woman] From the Uroboros.
Because he stole something precious
from your daddy Mundus.
The Arcana Chalice.
The Arcana.
[dark goth-metal music playing]
[music halts abruptly]
[demon 1] Is that...?
[demon 2] Yes. In his sapien form.
[demon 1] Why?
Why is he so cocky?
[demon 3] Rat.
Disgusting.
[demon 4] He's weak.
- [demon 5] Then why whisper?
- [demon 4] Shut up.
I knew I smelled another sapien.
Do you really believe
you belong here among us?
Half-breed.
Among you?
No.
[blade ringing]
[dark goth metal resumes]
[music stops]
[Vergil] The Western Wastes
now openly defy you.
They know somehow that you are to blame
for the sapiens' incursion into Makai.
[Mundus] It is true.
Had I not sent you
to maneuver the White Rabbit.
the sapiens would not have gained
the tool needed to invade our world.
A regrettable outcome.
but of little consequence.
Your father's archaic barrier will fall.
Earth will kneel to me.
There is another rumor.
That the sapiens stole something from you.
And it may have been one of the Arcana.
[Mundus] Yes. they did take such a thing.
thieving from the shadows
like the low scuttling creatures they are.
I was unaware that
an Arcana piece had been found.
Could it be a worshiper of Argosax
who stole it?
[Mundus]
Argosax and all his worshipers are dead.
You killed the last of them yourself.
I would rain punishment down upon
the sapiens' entire realm for this insult.
could I enter it myself.
There may be a more expedient path.
I can blend in amongst the sapiens.
I can return the Arcana to you
before your troops would even be readied.
[Mundus] Hmm.
Take care that your focus is not shaken
by the kin you have in that realm.
[sweeping. emotional music playing]
[Mundus] Dante is a shadow
of the self you destroyed.
Nothing more.
Of course. Majesty.
[Mundus] Hmm.
The sapiens could not
have done this alone.
For them to know of the Arcana.
for these rumors to have spread.
there is a traitor in our midst.
Perhaps many.
This is a threat
to the very order of the realm.
Go now.
[Mundus] Focus.
Feel the Yamato's power merge with yours.
It will allow you. and you alone.
to travel between the worlds.
[Yamato rasping]
[grim. suspenseful music playing]
Target took the bait.
California Interception Team B.
target is in your area.
Paralyze it and bring it in.
Show him what
America's finest are capable of.
You will prevail.
Yes. sir.
Halt. demon.
This is DARKCOM Border Patrol.
You have entered our realm illegally.
[Vergil. wryly] Hmm.
[aggressive. forceful music playing]
Gotcha. you demon-blooded bitch.
The devil ain't got shit on Uncle Sam.
["Bodies" playing]
♪ Let the bodies hit the floor
Let the bodies hit the floor ♪
♪ Let the bodies hit the floor ♪
♪ Let the bodies hit the ♪
♪ Floor ♪
He's… He's free!
Fire every missile we've got. now!
♪ Beaten. why for? ♪
♪ Can't take much more ♪
♪ Here we go. here we go. here we go now ♪
♪ One. nothing wrong with me
Two. nothing wrong with me ♪
♪ Three. nothing wrong with me
Four. nothing wrong with me ♪
♪ One. something's got to give ♪
♪ Two. something's got to give ♪
♪ Three. something's got to give now ♪
♪ Let the bodies hit the floor ♪
♪ Let the bodies hit the floor
Let the bodies hit the floor ♪
♪ Floor ♪
♪ Let the bodies hit the floor ♪
♪ Let the bodies hit the floor
Let the bodies hit the floor ♪
♪ Let the bodies hit the floor ♪
[song halts]
Those of you I've left able to speak.
one of you is going to tell me
what I want to know.
Who is it that branded you with this?
The Uroboros.
[Arius] All goes to plan.
Your sister did well. Chi.
Uroboros has almost fulfilled its purpose.
[wistful. mysterious music playing]
["Secrets" by Power Glove playing]
[Dante] You can come with me. if you want.
We can do an odd couple buddy cop thing.
Riggs and Murtaugh.
Tango and Cash. Dante and Lady.
[emotional synth music playing]
♪ I call it out ♪
♪ I just don't want to find you
Find out the truth ♪
♪ Like you do ♪
♪ I have secrets
They say I want to be lonely ♪
♪ But you waited for us ♪
♪ Don't hear me love
We won't talk it out ♪
♪ I'm leaving ♪
♪ I know my body can move in shadows ♪
♪ Don't waste it on me ♪
♪ I'm impatient ♪
♪ I hold your hand ♪
♪ It's just like whispers
Under your breathing ♪
♪ Like I dreamed it ♪
♪ Won't call you out ♪
♪ I'm just so mortified
You'll find out the truth ♪
♪ Like you do ♪
♪ I have secrets ♪
♪ They say I want to be lonely ♪
♪ But you waited for us ♪
♪ When all the words are falling ♪
♪ I want to lock it up ♪
♪ Can I lock it up? ♪
[song trails off]